---
layout : post
title : Ox Cheeks
categories : [cooking]
---

I recently got some ox cheeks from our local deli.
This is a cut I had no experience with, either cooking or eating.
It is very lean, with a small layer of fat on the surface and no marbling that I could see.
Each cheek was around 1.5 pounds, and the minimum order was 4 cheeks.
Upon investigating, all recipes (not surprisingly) call for either braising or slow-cooking the cheeks.

I had picked up a cookbook at the Words Worth Books 30th anniversary which had a recipe for braised ox cheeks in it, so I cooked that when Gwen’s co-worker Hellen came over.
This was a fairly straightforward recipe.
The cheeks were braised for a few hours with wine, beef stock and mirepoix.
I served it with beef jus, roasted baby potatoes and some veg.
This recipe was a qualified success.
The beef jus was a significant amount of work and contributed little to the dish.
The ox cheeks were so flavourful they completely overpowered the wine I braised them in (but the flavour was delicious so I won’t worry about this).
As always, the roasted potatoes were a hit and the apple crisp went off smoothly.
The meal was well lubricated and everyone enjoyed it, so it was a successful evening overall.

The other half of the cheeks went into a stew.
This is a recipe I grew up with so I knew what to expect.
It is a fairly typical stew recipe.
The beef is browned, then simmered in stock with vegetables and an apple.
The apple adds a nice sweetness, but is totally dissolved by the time the stew is cooked.
I think adding a second apple later would give a more pronounced apple flavour.
Raisins are added near the end, and provide nice bursts of sweetness which would be nicely complemented by the apple.
This recipe went off without a hitch and was nicely complemented by some cornbread.
The cheeks worked wonderfully as stewing beef, but I probably should have trimmed the fat, as it didn’t dissolve as well as I would have liked.
